Replace Presto with Trino in CBO blog (#305)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2019-07-04-cbo-introduction.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to Trino Cost-Based Optimizer"
author: Piotr Findeisen, Starburst Data
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

> Edited 15 June 2022: Updated this post to use the Trino project name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last edited 15 June 2022: Update to use the Trino project name.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we want to edit the Starburst permalink? If so, need this updated as well

# Conclusion

Summing up, Presto’s Cost-Based Optimizer is conceptually a very simple thing.
Summing up, Trino’s Cost-Based Optimizer is conceptually a very simple thing.
Alternative query plans are considered, the best plan is chosen and executed.
Details are not so simple, though. Fortunately, to use
[Presto]({{site.url}}/), one doesn’t need to know all these details.
[Trino]({{site.url}}/), one doesn’t need to know all these details.
Of course, anyone with a technical inclination that like to wander in database
internals is invited to study [the Presto code]({{site.github_repo_url}})!
internals is invited to study [the Trino code]({{site.github_repo_url}})!

Enabling Presto CBO is really simple:
Enabling Trino CBO is really simple:

- set `optimizer.join-reordering-strategy=AUTOMATIC` and
  `join-distribution-type=AUTOMATIC` in your `config.properties`,
- [analyze]({{site.url}}/docs/current/sql/analyze.html) your tables,
- no, there is no third step. That’s it!

Take Presto CBO for a spin today and let us know what is *your* Presto

> experience!

Reviewer 3: why removed?

Reviewer: I agree.. why remove and not just also rename
